CSS `mask` property (#39186)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/mask/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`mask`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Shorthand_properties) hides an element (partially or fully) by masking or clipping the image at specific points. It is a shorthand for all the [`mask-*`](#constituent-properties) properties. The property accepts one or more comma-separated values, where each value corresponds to a [`<mask-layer>`](#mask-layer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`mask`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [shorthand property](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_cascade/Shorthand_properties) hides an element (partially or fully) by masking or clipping a specified area of the image. It is a shorthand for all the [`mask-*`](#constituent-properties) properties. The property accepts one or more comma-separated values, where each value corresponds to a [`<mask-layer>`](#mask-layer).
```

Reviewer: Maybe? "Specific points" sounded a bit vague/odd.

Author: Agree. I should of edited more ;)

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- {{cssxref("mask-clip")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-composite")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-image")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-mode")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-origin")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-position")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-repeat")}}
- {{cssxref("mask-size")}}

> [!NOTE]

> > As the `mask` shorthand resets all the component properties as well as the {{cssxref("mask-border")}} properties to their initial values, the specification authors recommend using the `mask` shorthand rather than the individual component properties to override any mask settings earlier in the cascade. This ensures that `mask-border` is also reset, allowing the new styles to take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> As the `mask` shorthand resets all the component properties as well as the {{cssxref("mask-border")}} properties to their initial values, the specification authors recommend using the `mask` shorthand rather than the individual component properties to override any mask values set earlier in the cascade. This ensures that `mask-border` is also reset, allowing the new styles to take effect.
```

## Description

> The `mask` property is used to hide part or all of the element on which it is applied. The parts that are hidden, visible, or partially rendered depend on the opacity of the mask at that pixel. The sections masked by opaque parts of the mask are completely hidden. Where the mask is fully transparent the element is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `mask` property hides part or all of the element it is applied to. Which parts are hidden, visible, or partially rendered depends on the opacity of the mask at that pixel. The sections masked by opaque parts of the mask are completely hidden, whereas transparent sections of the mask render the element visible.
```

> While not all constituent properties need to be declared, any values that are omitted default to their initial values, which are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not all constituent mask properties need to be declared, any values that are omitted default to their initial values, which are:
```

```css
mask-image: none;
mask-mode: match-source;
mask-position: 0% 0%;
mask-size: auto;
mask-repeat: repeat;
mask-origin: border-box;
mask-clip: border-box;
mask-composite: add;
```

> The order of some properties matter. Within each `<mask-layer>`, the `mask-size` component must go after the `mask-position` value, with a forward slash (`/`) separating the two. If one `<geometry-box>` value and the `no-clip` keyword are present, the `<geometry-box>` is the value of the `mask-origin` property as the `no-clip` is only valid for the `mask-clip` property. In this case, the order of the two values doesn't matter. If only one `<geometry-box>` value is present (with no `no-clip` keyterm), this value is used for both the `mask-origin` and `mask-clip` properties. Where order is important is if there are two `<geometry-box>` values present; in this case, the first is the `mask-origin` value while the second is the `mask-clip` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of some properties matters. Within each `<mask-layer>`, the `mask-size` component must go after the `mask-position` value, with a forward slash (`/`) separating the two. If one `<geometry-box>` value and the `no-clip` keyword are present, the `<geometry-box>` is the value of the `mask-origin` property, as the `no-clip` is only valid for the `mask-clip` property. In this case, the order of the two values doesn't matter. If only one `<geometry-box>` value is present (with no `no-clip` keyterm specified), this value is used for both the `mask-origin` and `mask-clip` properties. The order is important if there are two `<geometry-box>` values present; in this case, the first is the `mask-origin` value while the second is the `mask-clip` value.
```

Reviewer: This paragraph is a bit long and wordy, and it is hard to visualize what you mean. Maybe break it up a bit, and intersperse some code examples that illustrate what you mean?

> As the `mask` shorthand resets all the `mask-border-*` properties to their `initial` value, declare these properties, or the {{cssxref("mask-border")}} shorthand after any `mask` declarations. Using `mask` behaves as if you also set the following in your declaration block:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the `mask` shorthand resets all the `mask-border-*` properties to their `initial` value, you should declare these properties — or the {{cssxref("mask-border")}} shorthand — after any `mask` declarations. When setting `mask` in your declaration block, you also implicitly set the following:
```

```css
mask-border-source: none;
mask-border-mode: alpha;
mask-border-outset: 0;
mask-border-repeat: stretch;
mask-border-slice: 0;
mask-border-width: auto;
```

> For this reason, the specification recommends using the `mask` shorthand rather than the individual component properties to override any masks set earlier in the cascade to ensure that `mask-border` has also been reset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, the specification recommends using the `mask` shorthand rather than the individual component properties to override any masks set earlier in the cascade. This ensures that `mask-border` has also been reset.
```

> ## Syntax

Reviewer: Doesn't the "Syntax" section go before the "Description" section?

Author: moved

mask: url(masks.svg#star) stroke-box; /* Mask extends to the inside edge of the stroke box */
mask: url(masks.svg#star) exclude; /* Mask combined with background using non-overlapping parts */

/* Multiple masks */
mask:
  url(masks.svg#star) left / 16px repeat-y,
  /* 16px-wide mask on the left side */ url(masks.svg#circle) right / 16px
    repeat-y; /* 16px-wide mask against right side */

/* Global values */
mask: inherit;
mask: initial;
mask: revert;
mask: revert-layer;
mask: unset;
```

## Description

The `mask` property hides part or all of the element it is applied to. Which parts are hidden, visible, or partially rendered depends on the opacity of the mask at that pixel. The sections masked by opaque parts of the mask are completely hidden, whereas transparent sections of the mask render the element visible.

While not all constituent mask properties need to be declared, any values that are omitted default to their initial values, which are:

```css
mask-image: none;
mask-mode: match-source;
mask-position: 0% 0%;
mask-size: auto;
mask-repeat: repeat;
mask-origin: border-box;
mask-clip: border-box;
mask-composite: add;
```

> The order of some properties matters. Within each `<mask-layer>`, the `mask-size` component must go after the `mask-position` value, with a forward slash (`/`) separating the two. If one `<geometry-box>` value and the `no-clip` keyword are present, the `<geometry-box>` is the value of the `mask-origin` property, as the `no-clip` is only valid for the `mask-clip` property. In this case, the order of the two values doesn't matter. If only one `<geometry-box>` value is present (with no `no-clip` keyterm specified), this value is used for both the `mask-origin` and `mask-clip` properties. The order is important if there are two `<geometry-box>` values present; in this case, the first is the `mask-origin` value while the second is the `mask-clip` value.

Author: ```suggestion
Within each `<mask-layer>`, the `mask-size` component must go after the `mask-position` value, with a forward slash (`/`) separating the two.

If there are two `<geometry-box>` values present, the first is the `mask-origin` value, while the second is the `mask-clip` value. If one `<geometry-box>` value and the `no-clip` keyword are present, the `<geometry-box>` is the value of the `mask-origin` property, as the `no-clip` is only valid for the `mask-clip` property. In this case, the order of the two values doesn't matter. If only one `<geometry-box>` value is present (with no `no-clip` keyterm specified), this value is used for both the `mask-origin` and `mask-clip` properties.
```

As the `mask` shorthand resets all the `mask-border-*` properties to their `initial` value, you should declare these properties — or the {{cssxref("mask-border")}} shorthand — after any `mask` declarations. When setting `mask` in your declaration block, you also implicitly set the following:

```css
mask-border-source: none;
mask-border-mode: alpha;
mask-border-outset: 0;
mask-border-repeat: stretch;
mask-border-slice: 0;
mask-border-width: auto;
```

For this reason, the specification recommends using the `mask` shorthand rather than the individual component properties to override any masks set earlier in the cascade. This ensures that `mask-border` has also been reset.

> ### Values

Reviewer: Ummm, you've ended up putting the "Description" section in the middle of the "Syntax" section. The "Values" section should be above the "Description" H2.

mask: none;

/* Image values */
mask: url(mask.png); /* Raster image used as mask */

> mask: url(masks.svg#star); /* Element with an SVG used as mask */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mask: url(masks.svg#star); /* SVG used as mask */
```

/* Combined values */
mask: url(masks.svg#star) luminance; /* Luminance mask */
mask: url(masks.svg#star) 40px 20px; /* Mask positioned 40px from the top and 20px from the left */
mask: url(masks.svg#star) 0 0/50px 50px; /* Mask with a width and height of 50px */

> mask: url(masks.svg#star) repeat-x; /* Horizontally repeated mask */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mask: url(masks.svg#star) repeat-x; /* Horizontally-repeated mask */
```

mask: url(masks.svg#star) stroke-box; /* Mask extends to the inside edge of the stroke box */
mask: url(masks.svg#star) exclude; /* Mask combined with background using non-overlapping parts */

/* Multiple masks */
mask:
  url(masks.svg#star) left / 16px repeat-y,
  /* 16px-wide mask on the left side */ url(masks.svg#circle) right / 16px
    repeat-y; /* 16px-wide mask against right side */

/* Global values */
mask: inherit;
mask: initial;
mask: revert;
mask: revert-layer;
mask: unset;
```

### Values

- `<mask-layer>`

>   - : One or more comma separated mask layers, consisting of the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : One or more comma-separated mask layers, consisting of the following components:
```

    - `<mask-reference>`
      - : Sets the mask image source. See {{cssxref("mask-image")}}.
    - `<masking-mode>`
      - : Sets the masking mode of the mask image. See {{cssxref("mask-mode")}}.
    - `<position>`
      - : Sets the position of the mask image. See {{cssxref("mask-position")}}.
    - `<bg-size>`
      - : Sets the size of the mask image. See {{cssxref("mask-size")}}.
    - `<repeat-style>`
      - : Sets the repetition of the mask image. See {{cssxref("mask-repeat")}}.
    - `<geometry-box>`
      - : If only one `<geometry-box>` value is given, it sets both {{cssxref("mask-origin")}} and {{cssxref("mask-clip")}}. If two `<geometry-box>` values are present, then the first sets {{cssxref("mask-origin")}} and the second sets {{cssxref("mask-clip")}}.
    - `<geometry-box> | no-clip`

>       - : Sets the area that is affected by the mask image. See {{cssxref("mask-clip")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - : Sets the area affected by the mask image. See {{cssxref("mask-clip")}}.
```

### Masking an image

> In this example, an image is masked using a CSS generated repeating conic gradient as a mask source. We'll also show the gradient as a background image for comparison.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, an image is masked using a CSS-generated repeating conic gradient as a mask source. We'll also show the gradient as a background image for comparison.
```

#### HTML

We include an {{htmlelement("img")}} and an empty {{htmlelement("div")}} element.

```html
<img
  src="https://mdn.github.io/shared-assets/images/examples/progress-pride-flag.jpg"
  alt="Pride flag" />
<div></div>
```

#### CSS

We set the same {{cssxref("border")}}, {{cssxref("padding")}}, and sizing on both the `<img>` and `<div>`.

```css
img,
div {
  border: 20px dashed rebeccapurple;
  box-sizing: content-box;
  padding: 20px;
  height: 220px;
  width: 220px;
}
```

> We then apply a mask to the `<img>`. The `mask-image` is generated using a {{cssxref("gradient/repeating-conic-gradient", "repeating-conic-gradient()")}} function. We define it to be a `100px` by `100px` gradient which repeats starting at the top and left corner of the image's `content-box`. We include two `<geometry-box>` values; the first sets `mask-origin` and the second defines the `mask-clip` property value. The gradient goes from transparent to solid `lightgreen`. We used `lightgreen` to demonstrate that it isn't the color of the mask that is important, but rather it's transparency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then apply a mask to the `<img>`. The `mask-image` is generated using a {{cssxref("gradient/repeating-conic-gradient", "repeating-conic-gradient()")}} function. We define it to be a `100px` by `100px` gradient, which repeats starting at the top and left corner of the image's `content-box`. We include two `<geometry-box>` values; the first sets the `mask-origin` and the second defines the `mask-clip` property value. The gradient goes from transparent to solid `lightgreen`. We used `lightgreen` to demonstrate that it isn't the color of the mask that is important, but rather its transparency.
```

```css
img {
  mask: repeating-radial-gradient(
      circle,
      transparent 0 5px,
      lightgreen 15px 20px
    )
    content-box border-box 0% 0% / 100px 100px repeat;
}
```

> Finally, we use the same value for the `<div>`'s {{cssxref("background")}} shorthand, property as we used fpr the `mask`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we use the same value for the `<div>`'s {{cssxref("background")}} shorthand property as we used for the `mask`.
```
